Now, if you remember, at one point earlier, I talked about recruiting basics in the setting up of
the laboratory section.
I'm sure you do.
So in enroute device data is at risk.
Including gaining access to personal information such as contact lists, emails, other data or collecting
data like credentials and passwords.
So with a router device, a user or a malicious program can elevate their permissions to route and circumvent
this protection, giving them access to other apps, private data.
So in this lecture, we're going to look at the techniques used by Android developers in order to detect
if a device on which the app is running is routed or not.
So you don't need me to tell you that there are probably a good number of advantages for an application
to be able to detect if it's running on a router device or not.
Most of the techniques we use to test an Android application require Rup permission to install various
tools and hence compromise the security of the application.
So why don't we begin with the most common techniques being used in the most popular applications,
and that'll tell us if the device is routed now, once the device is rooted, some new files may be
placed onto the device.
So checking for those files and packages installed on the device is one way to find out if the device
is routed or not.
So super user Dot APIC, that's the most common package many apps look for in route detection.
This application allows other applications to run as route on the device.
So there are some specific applications which run only on bruited devices.
So, of course, checking for those applications would also be a good idea to detect if the device is
routed.
Here's one, for example, busy box.
So you may have heard a busy box, it's an application which provides a way to execute the most common
Linux commands on an Android device.
The other technique is executing Asou and IDI commands and looking at the UID to see if it's root.
Many developers search for specific package names related to the rooting of Android devices.
PM list packages.
This is a command that list packages that are currently installed on the device.